>> Steve Kinney: Now we have
the ability to use native libraries in
our application.
We use them directly from
the renderer process.
We don't have to like, okay,
we need to put something in the server.
We need to put something in the data base.
All right,
send an atrax call to the server.
Have the server do it,
send an atrax call back.
When you use this directly in our
application in ways that might not be,
I think for a lot of us there is muscle
memory to think I can't do that,
because I can't do it in the browser,
right?
And one of the big points
I wanna kind of drive home
by doing this all in the render process,
despite my inability to spell,
is that we can actually start to think
about the stuff in different ways, right?
Talking directly to the data base,
persistence, maybe sequelized's not
the best choice for you, could you
still use index db or local storage?
Yeah, you could, right?
But if you do need a sequel database,
you can also use that as well.
Sequel light tends to be used
very commonly in like Mac OS and
Windows applications and iOs applications.
So it's not totally out of the box,
the reason I chose it is because it's used
a lot of times in desktop and mobile
applications for persisting data, right?
If there is a browser technology you
would rather use go for it, right?
But some of the ways that we think about
the technology that we can use when
building applications is different in
electron than it would be normally.
For our next check what were gonna do is
turn this into an application that
lives in either A the menu bar or
B the system tray depending on if
you are on MacOS or not, right?
So wherever these icons live
on your operating system,
that is where we are going
to put this application.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
so let's close the app.
There is a really library for
doing this called menu bar.
Now, electron has a tray module and
the tray module is really good for
creating like menus like this in
the system tray or menu, right?
Like traditional menus.
Right, and remember before we did
the menu.build from template and
then we used that as the application menu.
Right, you could put an icon up in
the system tray or menu bar and
put a menu there.
But what you can't do with
the built-in electron one
is put a user interface there.
You can put just a dropdown, right?
What the menu bar application
does is it kinda cheats.
Is it puts a menu up there,
right, with no items.
And when you click it,
it perfectly puts a browser window
where the menu would be so
it looks like there's a menu there, right?
This basically fakes it.
Doing that involves like electron
positioner and a whole bunch of libraries.
We're not going to use those.
We're just going to kind of
use menu bar out of the box.
>> Steve Kinney: And
it's not gonna be a lot of refactoring.
So as that installs,
we're gonna get coding.
So in this case we have,
we're creating that main window,
we're gonna do stuff a little
bit differently this time.
We don't need browser window.
>> Steve Kinney: Cuz Menubar's
gonna take care of that.
We're going to const Menubar.
>> Steve Kinney: We could do import, even.
Import menubar from
menubar as that installs.
You gotta love, this is definitely one
of the earlier electron libraries and
that was back when you could get things
like menubar as a MPM package name, right?
So you can tell,
back in the good old days.
>> Steve Kinney: So we say const
menubar = menubar constructor and
we're gonna give it that index which
is very much like that load url.
A lot of this is like
under the hood stuff for
us, so we can say
>> Steve Kinney: Index.jade and
we'll give another one
called preloadwindow and
this is not dissimilar
from what we're doing
with hiding and
showing the window earlier.
Basically, in many bar it doesn't
even bother to try to create
the browser window until the very
first time the user clicks on it.
So its even more obvious the user
clicks on it they see Wait.
And then we even start to
build the browser windows.
So in this case even while,
before they ever get to it,
we will go ahead and load it up.
And then we can say, menubar.on('ready,
and that's very similar.
This is an abstraction over browser
window, and it's an abstraction over app,
it's an abstraction over a lot of
the stuff already in electron.
It's like you can read the, it's like 100
lines of code or something like that.
It's just an easy abstraction for
setting this up so
you don't have to do it every time.
So menubar.on('ready, and we'll go ahead.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll grab
>> Steve Kinney: Our shortcuts from
before
>> Steve Kinney: And take them with us.
I'm gonna comment out this app on ready
>> Steve Kinney: Cuz we don't want
the normal window to open.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll
paste those in there.
So they start the same
way they did before.
And let's start with that right now.
>> Steve Kinney: There's probably some
other code that I should delete about
the all Windows and
stuff along those lines.
But let's give it a shot first.
All right,
launch number 4 is just starting up.
And you can see I have this little cat
icon up here, that's just the default
one included with the menu bar
library cause who doesn't love cats.
Whosevers opened a computer, saw a cat and
been- well the Internets
hard if that's the case.
And now you see I can click it.
>> Steve Kinney: And there it is,
I've got this menu bar application.
That was not a hard refactoring.
Let's do just one other thing.
We can also set a menu, a context menu,
which we talked about earlier,
on that icon.
There's no really great way to quit this.
I mean, you can click on it
into the browser window and
hit command q, it'll work.
I will tell you, too, that giving yourself
some kind of on-off switch is good,
because using the developer tools,
you have to like click into it,
then open the dev tools,
then go back and forth.
So sometimes being in
a regular window again,
when you're developing a menu
bar application, kinda good.